#labels Featured
*Examples for command line*

<code>*1. Set default parameters: *perl mitomatic.pl -c -i sample.fastq</code>

Runs complete pipeline with default parameters: alignment using maq, assuming data as single end, filtering variations with 10% hetereoplasmic frequency. Output is stored in folder named mitomatic_out.

<code>*2. Change the alignment tool: *perl mitomatic.pl -c -i sample.fastq -t bwa</code>

Runs complete pipeline using bwa for alignment, assuming data as single end, filtering variations with 10% hetereoplasmic frequency. Output is stored in folder named mitomatic_out. To align with maq/bowtie, replace bwa with maq/bowtie.

<code>*3. Change the alignment tool and set frequency: *perl mitomatic.pl -c -i sample.fastq -t bwa -f 5</code>

Runs complete pipeline using bwa for alignment, assuming data as single end, filtering variations with 5% hetereoplasmic frequency. Output is stored in folder named mitomatic_out. Set frequency after option -f.

<code>*4. Change name of the output directory: *perl mitomatic.pl -c -i sample.fastq -d sample_maq</code>

Runs complete pipeline using maq for alignment, assuming data as single end, filtering variations with 10% hetereoplasmic frequency. Output is stored in folder named sample_maq.

<code>*5. For paired end data: *perl mitomatic.pl -c -i sample_1.fastq sample_2.fastq -o pe</code>

Runs complete pipeline using maq for alignment considering paired end data, filtering variations with 10% hetereoplasmic frequency. Output is stored in folder named mitomatic_out. In case -o pe option is not given, only the first file is considered for alignment, ignoring the second file.

<cod>*6. For parsing already prepared pileup file: *perl mitomatic.pl -p all.pileup -t bwa</code>

Filters variations with 10% heteroplasmic frequency from the pileup created by bwa and prepares a file parsed_all.pileup compatible with mit-o-matic online version. -t option is mandatory while parsing pileup.

<code>*7. For parsing already prepared pileup file with a defined frequency: *perl mitomatic.pl -p all.pileup -t maq -f 5</code>

Filters variations with 5% heteroplasmic frequency from the pileup created by maq and prepares a file parsed_all.pileup compatible with mit-o-matic online version.